There is currently a need in the planetary science community for flexible representations describing the thermodynamic conditions of water and solutions at extreme low temperature and high pressure conditions relevant to icy moon and water rich exoplanet interiors. My group has developed a number of such equations of state (EoS), including one for aqueous NaCl, which allows the calculation of 22 thermodynamic variables for NaCl-water solutions of 0-7 mol/kg NaCl from 240-501 K and 0-1,000 MPa (1 GPa). This EoS is fully self consistent, as all properties are derived as combinations of derivatives of Gibbs energy, mathematical represents using b-spline local basis functions.
. 
However, the current routine of evaluating the b-spline functions (especially over a list of scattered points) is computationally slow relative to the needs of the most sophisticated icy moon and exoplanet geodynamic models—recent benchmarking shows it takes ~ 30 seconds to calculate 1,000 pts.

The objective of this project is to use machine learning to more efficiently solve for key thermodynamic properties as determined by the EoS up to concentrations of 7 mol/kg at extreme pressure temperature conditions, or to accurately predict properties without evaluating the full EoS. An optimistic goal is to decrease current computation times by a factor of 10. 

Therefore, I plan to train a convolutional neural network on model PTM data up to 1 GPa, 500 K, and 7 mol/kg. The target variables are entropy (S), internal energy (U), enthalpy (H), Helmholtz energy (A), density (rho), and heat capacity (Cp). This is purely a regression problem—it is straightforward in theory, but complicated in practice by the high dimensionality and variances in the target variables. So far, I have had success training classic ML models such as decision tree and random forest regressors on normalized data.

By definition this must be a supervised learning approach, as my goal is to replicate the training data (the current outputs of the EoS) as efficiently and accurately as possible. 
 